OK, so I just broke up with Jes Miles.

OK, not really.  This is what happened.

Linnea declared on her publically accessible (but seldom read) blog that she's
giving up on christianity.  She can't believe the bible any longer, as it just
does not match up with reality.  Well, it got read by Jes's sister, who told
Jes and company (gossip is a sweet treat).  So, since we considered Jes a
friend, we decided to go to talk with

Jes was calm, quiet, sullen, and specific.  He let us lead, always responding
guardedly never leading. He played his hand close, never being overt.  He
sniped with comments meant to encourage guilt and doubt.

She tried to explain the intent of her blog, but he disagreed.  When pressed
about whether he was trying to say that she was lying about her own
intentions, he didn't give a direct answer.  Instead, he brought up her
"deceiptful" conversation with him in which she said she was "fine."  

Linnea did a good job controlling her emotions in the face of accusation.  She
pointed out that she was indeed fine, and it was his assumption that she was
being deceptive.  He did not capitulate, he simply shrugged and stood his
ground.  He did not appologize.  He did not ask a single question.  He simply
readied himself for another move.  I move my queen.  I took your rook.  Check.  

I told him, gently but surely, that we were not having a conversation: he was
giving us talking points, not asking questions.  He had no good response to
this, but did not change his mode.  Gently, honestly, I pushed that this was
why I do not trust most christians.  He had no reply except to perhaps shrug
with eyes that told me that he was so sad for me; sad that the devil had found
a foothold in me; sad that I wasn't acting like a sheep in his fold.

He tried to make us feel guilty for not squeezing shut our eyes to what we
couldn't help but see; he never asked what it was we were actually seeing.
Manipulation.  Gas-lighting.  He deliberately tried to make us feel a certain
way:  the very definition of manipulation.

I'm writing this to remind myself of what I saw so clearly that day, and that
it could be traced back fifteen years.  I will forget, I will look upon him
with sympathy, I will doubt myself.

Do not forget how dangerous he is to you.  He can and will manipulate you if
you allow it.

Do not be sympathetic to him.  He revealed himself as a dangerous man.

Do not doubt yourself.  You heard with your own ears what he said, you were
quite lucid the day you spoke with him.  You saw the patterns.  He did not
ask, he accused.  The only way he would be able to make the accusations that
he did is if the Spirit told him.  The Spirit did not tell him.  It was Jesse
being Jesse, and that's a dangerous and bad thing.  Do not let him commandeer
your mind again.  He is gentle, powerful, specific, and cunning.  He will give
you the shirt of your back as he oppresses his children.  He has been told to
"feed My sheep," but he cannot use that as a blanket permission to control
you.  Never again.
